---
title: "My Columbia: Shenton's Army"
author: "Marc McCann"
schools:
  - "Columbia College 1988"
---

# Shenton's Army

Coming into Columbia as an apparent economics major, and pretty much taking all core classes my freshman year, I decided to try a history class my sophomore year.  Entitled "The Radical Tradition in America," and taught by Eric Foner, I had one of those rare moments in life in which I completely and wholeheartedly fell in love with a new topic: American History.  Professor Foner clearly and succinctly showed the class a very interesting thread in the American drama.  I was hooked on American history, quickly changing my major and trying out other classes.  Kenneth Jackson's classes on Urban History and his classic, "The History of the City of New York" were also fantastic, rivaling Dr. Foner's course.

But one professor I'd heard about, Jim Shenton, was able, at least in my opinion, to top the great presence and passion of both Foner and Jackson.  When he lectured, you felt that he was re-living the story he was telling, as if he had been there when it took place  He added an appropriate amount of high drama, and truly brought the past to life.  His lectures were more entertaining--and more informative--than watching some of the events in a docudrama.  His classes on "Race and Ethnicity" were provocative, and he managed to get to know his many students, despite having so many of them.

Two lectures still stick out for me: when Professor Shenton explained the Molly Maguires and the labor disputes in 19th-century Pennsylvania Coal Country, and when he re-enacted the calling out of names at the beginning of the New York City Draft Riots.  And in addition to telling these stories so well, there was nothing like going on a walking tour with Dr. Shenton, and having him show you a dumbbell tenement or other piece of the past.  Needless to say, I began my career after graduating as a history teacher...
